Abstract
	Digital Image Processing provides the essential practices to examine digital images and the development of fundamental techniques to analyze and process digital photos, which include principles, concepts, and techniques of digital image processing. Basic knowledge used in digital image processing include filtering, compression, feature recognition, classification and understanding as applied to electrical engineering. Where some digital image processing tools are used to improve clarity, and remove noise, extract the size, scale, prepare images for display, and compress images. These tools have advanced digital imaging in the technology field, and this report will describe a basic digital image processing program and its functions. 


INTRODUCTION
	The student created a graphical user interface (GUI) using MATLAB language, where the user would be able to manipulate an image and see the manipulated image as the user inputs its operations. These manipulations can include resizing, increasing/decreasing contrast, and various filters. While the user changes their digital image, the user will also be able to update and save the current image to its manipulated image and continue with more operations if needed. Below details each of the projects’ functions. 
Project One
Project One involved a graphical user interface (GUI) using MATLAB, where upon prompt a load, save, update, and quit button. Each of these buttons had a callback function when the user pushes any of the buttons. When the ‘load’ button is pressed, the function is called for the user to select an image file for loading, which is then displayed on both axes. If the ‘save’ button is pressed, the save button pushed function is called and the user is then prompted to select filename and filetype for saving a copy of the displayed “preview” image as a file.  Once the “update” button is selected, the function will replace the before image with the after image. Several test buttons and manipulations were made within the GUI, each with a button pushed callback functions or value changed callback functions, when initiated the tests or manipulations will respectively output its manipulated image onto the ‘preview image’ axes for the user to further edit or save into a file. 

Project Two
Project Two encases Project One, but with additional digital image manipulations. Where the program is to provide spatial-domain filter options. With available neighborhoods, that must include at least square regions of sizes 3x3, 5x5, 7x7, and 9x9. Other additional filters included a spatial-domain edge-detect/high-pass filter (8 surrounded by -1s). A spatial-domain highboost filter with selection of the boost scaling coefficient. Increase/decrease brightness with sub-selection of how much brightness shift and an increase/decrease contrast with sub-selection of contrast scaling factor. A Global Histogram-Equalization using MATLAB’s histeq function and an Adaptive Histogram-Equalization using MATLAB’s adapthisteq function. These filters and manipulations had a callback function when the user has provided input. The program delivers some frequency-domain filter options for both grayscale and color images. With a frequency domain filters based on frequency range or a specified cutoff frequency radius. 

CONCLUSION
As a student, I had a difficult time with programming a digital image processing MATLAB program. With research and help with the slides and sample code provided I was able to complete Project One. I learned how to appropriately call an image and how to manipulate it, and then correctly output to the designated axes. Project Two was a great deal harder to create, due to how each filter’s functions, how the code must be written and their placement, to then output an image successfully. While this MATLAB program has been a challenge it has greatly strengthened my coding abilities.

